# An-Introduction-to-Interactive-Programming-in-Python-Part-2
An Introduction to Interactive Programming in Python (Part 2) - Part2 of Fundamentals of Computing from Rice University

## Mini-project # 5 - Memory
Memory is a card game in which the player deals out a set of cards face down. In Memory, a turn (or a move) consists of the player flipping over two cards. If they match, the player leaves them face up. If they don't match, the player flips the cards back face down. The goal of Memory is to end up with all of the cards flipped face up in the minimum number of turns. For this project, we will keep our model for Memory fairly simple. A Memory deck consists of eight pairs of matching cards.

## Mini-project # 6 - Blackjack
Blackjack is a simple, popular card game that is played in many casinos. Cards in Blackjack have the following values: an ace may be valued as either 1 or 11 (player's choice), face cards (kings, queens and jacks) are valued at 10 and the value of the remaining cards corresponds to their number. During a round of Blackjack, the players plays against a dealer with the goal of building a hand (a collection of cards) whose cards have a total value that is higher than the value of the dealer's hand, but not over 21.  (A round of Blackjack is also sometimes referred to as a hand.)

The game logic for our simplified version of Blackjack is as follows. The player and the dealer are each dealt two cards initially with one of the dealer's cards being dealt faced down (his hole card). The player may then ask for the dealer to repeatedly "hit" his hand by dealing him another card. If, at any point, the value of the player's hand exceeds 21, the player is "busted" and loses immediately. At any point prior to busting, the player may "stand" and the dealer will then hit his hand until the value of his hand is 17 or more. (For the dealer, aces count as 11 unless it causes the dealer's hand to bust). If the dealer busts, the player wins. Otherwise, the player and dealer then compare the values of their hands and the hand with the higher value wins. The dealer wins ties in our version.

## Mini-project # 7 - Spaceship
In our last two mini-projects, we will build a 2D space game RiceRocks that is inspired by the classic arcade game Asteroids (1979). Asteroids is a relatively simple game by today's standards, but was still immensely popular during its time. (Joe spent countless quarters playing it.) In the game, the player controls a spaceship via four buttons: two buttons that rotate the spaceship clockwise or counterclockwise (independent of its current velocity), a thrust button that accelerates the ship in its forward direction and a fire button that shoots missiles. Large asteroids spawn randomly on the screen with random velocities. The player's goal is to destroy these asteroids before they strike the player's ship. In the arcade version, a large rock hit by a missile split into several fast moving small asteroids that themselves must be destroyed. Occasionally, a flying saucer also crosses the screen and attempts to destroy the player's spaceship. Searching for "asteroids arcade" yields links to multiple versions of Asteroids that are available on the web (including an updated version by Atari, the original creator of Asteroids).

## Mini-project #8 - RiceRocks (Asteroids)
For our last mini-project, we will complete the implementation of RiceRocks, an updated version of Asteroids,  that we began last week.  You may start with either your code or the program template which includes a full implementation of Spaceship and will be released immediately after the deadline for the Spaceship mini-project (by making the preceding link live).  If you start with your own code, you should add the splash screen image that you dismiss with a mouse click before starting this mini-project.  We strongly recommend using Chrome for this mini-project since Chrome's superior performance will become apparent when your program attempts to draw dozens of sprites.
